# Introduction

Much uncertainty exists today regarding whether, and to what extent, software-related inventions are eligible for patent protection in the United States. This unease among practitioners about where statutory boundaries lie finds roots in the conflict between the nature of computer software and the Patent Act's permissive recitation of eligible subject matter.

The Supreme Court has been unable to articulate exactly what it meant when it held forty years ago in *Gottschalk v Benson* that procedure for solving a mathematical problem, in the form of a computer program, may not be patented. Such an "algorithm," the Court wrote, amounted to patenting the mathematical principle itself. The problem with this language in *Benson* is that *all* computer programs are by definition a procedure for solving one or more mathematical problems. All computer programs are algorithms, or a collection of algorithms. They are are simply a series of instructions for a computer system to follow---a series of steps. Why then do computer programs not expressly fall under Section 101's identification of a "process" or "method"?

Additionally, computer programs are provided to a computer as software in tangible form, whether that form is as fixed as on optical disc media, or as ephemeral as a time-series of electrical impulses. The very nature of the computer hardware changes upon executing the instructions of program. It is now a "new" computer, because the tangible hardware components now function in an entirely different way. Shouldn't such a programmed computer be a "new and useful ... machine" for which a patent can be obtained?

These arguments have been made for decades to support the patentability of computer software. Yet the Supreme Court, with one exception, has rejected these arguments and held that claims sought for computer-related inventions are ineligible subject matter. The Supreme Court's reasoning in these opinions do not provide an adequate as a framework to evaluate patent eligibility. The Court has used language describing exceptions to patent eligibility such as "[p]henomena of nature, though just discovered, mental processes, and abstract intellectual concepts." This is not a clear articulation of the principles at issue. All inventions, as the Court itself has warned, can be reduced to an abstract idea.

This paper proposes a different framework in which to evaluate computer-related inventions. It begins by taking a step back to look at computers in their most general sense---as an *information system*, meaning it manipulates data to produce more useful information. Information systems, whether implemented by a digital computer executing a software program, by a human using pen and paper to solve a mathematical formula, or by an organized group of people in communication, are the "basic tools of scientific and technological work" that the Court has consistently sought to preserve as free for mankind to use. Thus, as an initial matter, information systems are not eligible for patent protection. When the patentee claims to have invented an information system or method of using one, the patentee has only claimed a bare idea, no different than claiming a notion of humans thinking a certain way and talking to each other about their thoughts. Exceptions to this principle that may warrant patent protection arise only when the applicant has solved a specific technological problem encountered while implementing the information system, or has applied the information system as a tool in a "new and useful way" to transform a physical substance.

This framework, in fact, reveals that the Supreme Court has taken an almost entirely consistent approach to patent eligibility over the past 150 years, since long before the arrival of digital computers. The holdings are not *ad hoc* or arbitrary. We can now abandon vague notions such as "mathematical principles" or "abstract ideas" as guideposts, and understand when to disregard recitations of technology as "insignificant post-solution activity." Finally, it is safe for us affirm that a novel computer program or algorithm may, under appropriate circumstances, be declared patentable.

Below, this text discusses first how to define an "information system" and the role that a general-purpose computer plays. Next, the paper reviews the principles of patentability declared by the Supreme Court. Then we examine how the Supreme Court has responded to the appearance of computer-based information systems. Finally, the author proposes a framework for evaluating the patentability of information systems, whether computer-based or otherwise.
